## **[Abstract:]{.underline}**

Modern cybersecurity faces unprecedented challenges from sophisticated
malware attacks targeting critical infrastructure systems, necessitating
revolutionary detection methodologies that transcend the limitations of
classical approaches. Traditional signature-based detection methods
prove inadequate against zero-day threats, while classical machine
learning approaches struggle with computational complexity and real-time
adaptability to evolving attack patterns. This research proposes an
advanced malware detection framework leveraging Quantum Convolutional
Neural Networks (QCNNs) through a novel multi-encoding distributed
architecture specifically designed to address current quantum hardware
constraints while maximizing quantum computational advantages. The
methodology employs a comprehensive six-stage pipeline integrating
quantum data encoding strategies including hybrid angle encoding with
section-specific Portable Executable (PE) binary analysis using
distributed 8-qubit QCNNs. Each malware binary is systematically
decomposed into critical PE sections (.text, .data, .rdata, .rsrc,
.reloc), converted to 8Ã—8 grayscale images, and processed through
specialized quantum circuits employing parameterized gates with
entanglement patterns for enhanced feature extraction. The distributed
quantum processing outputs are then integrated through classical
ensemble methods including XGBoost and Random Forest for final
classification, with this hybrid classical-quantum integration serving
as an optional enhancement to the core quantum framework. Experimental
validation will be conducted on comprehensive malware datasets including
BODMAS and PEMachineLearning repositories, along with additional
specialized datasets, to ensure robust evaluation across diverse attack
vectors. The proposed framework aims to significantly outperform
classical approaches while maintaining practical deployment feasibility
on NISQ-era quantum devices. Expected contributions include establishing
systematic benchmarking standards for quantum cybersecurity
applications, developing scalable quantum-classical hybrid integration
strategies, and creating open-source frameworks for quantum-enhanced
malware detection. This research addresses critical gaps in current
quantum machine learning applications for cybersecurity, providing both
theoretical advances in distributed quantum processing and practical
solutions for real-world malware detection challenges in an increasingly
connected digital infrastructure.

Keywords: quantum machine learning, quantum convolutional neural
networks, malware detection, quantum computing, cybersecurity,
distributed computing, hybrid quantum-classical systems, NISQ devices

